Any questions about any
of the common accessibility issues?
Anyone else have other accessibility issues
that they run into that you want to share?
One thing, Robert, if you don't mind covering
is the types of automated tests
that Microsoft Inspector runs
versus what types of things that it can't
catch from like, automated testing.
I think someone had an issue or a question
about that earlier.
Okay, and that's,
that is going to be covered a little bit,
a little bit later in the day.
Not to completely put that off,
but it is something that we are going to,
we're going to talk about,
the differences between automated tests and manual tests.
And even the differences between
different automated tools.
Sounds good.
And Rebecca had a question.
Can I address appropriate markup and semantics
for site identifiers like logos or the site name?
Yes, so, the
site name, I'm going to go to our AIR rally site.
So we have a WordPress site, running our, open, well,
our AIR competition site.
It used to be called Open AIR for a number of years.
And it stands for The Accessible Internet Rally.
So we have a theme running here
and then we have a child theme on here.
But here on our home page, we have a heading level one
around the site name, right, the site title.
And it is AIR powered by nobility.
So that's in a div called site branding text,
and it is a heading level one.
Now if I go to a secondary page, say the compete page,
then if I look at it again,
I'm hoping this is going to be right.
It is.
So the site title is now just in a paragraph element.
And the heading level one is the title of the page.
Which is a very good strategy, I feel,
and a good convention to follow.
It's one that is recommended in the WordPress theme handbook
for accessibility ready themes.
So there's a good way that you can create a conditional
statement around your main navigation,
your main header area,
where if it is the homepage then wrap it
in a heading level one, but if it's a secondary page,
then make your heading level one be title of the page.
So, if this were a logo instead, which it could be,
we would still follow the same convention where our logo
would be inside an image,
well the image would be the logo right,
and then we'd have alt text for that image
that would say what it is.
If it's AIR Powered by Knowbility,
the Accessible Internet Rally, if that was an image,
then we'd just have alt text saying that.
And then, we'd wrap that in the heading level one
for the homepage, and wrap it just in a paragraph tag
for secondary pages that aren't the homepage.
All right, so, making icons accessible.
Sofia had answered that question
that I had about what other
common problems are there.
And absolutely, icon accessibility
is something that does get neglected.
I'm going to look at this and,
this is an icon that is accessible here.
So this is our Facebook icon and our Twitter icon,
our social icons on our screen.
And you can see it's wrapped in a link,
and it has a class of hidden texts
called screen reader text,
and it says "knowbility on Facebook".
And then our svg image for the social icon
has a role of image, but it's also hidden using aria.
And then all the svg contents are in there.
So basically, the image, the svg image itself is ignored
by people using assistive technologies, but they do get
knowbility on Facebook read out to them if they're using,
say, a screen reader.
So, that, if I look at the accessibility properties,
it's a link and it's computed name
is Knowbility on Facebook,
because that's what's in the content of the link.
So we hide it visibly using the screen reader text
that's built in with WordPress, and the screen reader text
class hides it on the screen, but makes it available
to folks who use assistive technologies.
So it's visibly hidden.
And I've seen other folks use a class called VH,
or visibly hidden, or SR for screen reader.
So this is a built-in class and something we'll cover
as well and in a little bit more depth in a bit.